# 9

## Stack snapshot and rollback


```bash
openstack stack snapshot create \
  --name mysnap \
  mystack
```
Creates a snapshot of an entire Heat stack.

Note:
With `openstack stack snapshot create`, we can create a point-in-time
view of an entire Heat stack. Now, you would be forgiven to think that
what happens in the background here is that we take

* a snapshot of every running Nova _instance,_ and
* a snapshot of every Cinder _volume_ in the stack.

How it _actually_ works though, is a slightly different story.


### Stack snapshots
What really happens

Note:
When initiating a stack snapshot, `heat-engine` does interact with
Nova to create a snapshot image from all the Nova instances
(i.e. `OS::Nova::Server` resources) in the stack. (How long this takes
is primarily a matter of what backends are in use for Nova ephemeral
storage and Glance image storage.)

What `heat-engine` does with respect to Cinder volumes
(`OS::Cinder::Volume` resources) is actually something _other_ than
create a volume _snapshot:_ in reality, it creates a volume _backup_
using the `cinder-backup` service. If your cloud doesn’t run
`cinder-backup`, then no snapshots for you. (The thinking behind this
is that when you delete a stack and delete its volumes, then the
volume snapshots go away as well. You normally don’t want that,
instead you want your volume contents to be preserved for posterity in
some way. Backups do that for you.)


### Stack snapshots
Limitations

Note:
Heat has a particularly hurtful UX issue in that snapshots don’t work
at all for nested stacks (like the ones created by
`OS::Heat::ResourceGroup`), and worse, that they fail silently: if you
run `openstack stack snapshot create` on a stack with nested stacks,
then the nested stack’s snapshot becomes not an error, but a no-op:
you’ll end up with a snapshot in the `SNAPSHOT_COMPLETE` stage, which
however doesn’t contain any resource snapshots at all.
